# CoV-MadrID
Characterization of host genetic factors contributing to COVID-19 severity promises advancements on drug discovery pathways to fight the disease. Informed by genetic variants, vulnerable patients are expected to benefit from prioritization of preventative and therapeutic interventions. However, most genetic variants identified to date in patients largely reflect the characteristics of source study populations, such as Northern European ancestry, with analysis of additional ethnicities offering potential for new associations. Herein we analyze 205 whole exomes from both patients with severe COVID-19 and controls in a highly selected population of Madrid, Spain. Cases were all adults hospitalized in Madrid during the first COVID-19 wave with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, bilateral pneumonia and oxygen saturation <93%. We excluded older individuals (>60 years-old), patients with comorbidities (obesity, diabetes, cancer, immunosuppression, etc.) and ancestrally diverse from Iberian Spanish (IBS).

In order to ascertain differentially affected genes between cases and controls we developed a python set of scripts to count the number of cases and controls harboring high impact variants (as defined by VEP). For each gene we counted the number of cases with high impact mutations and controls with high impact mutations. We then ranked genes according to the greatest difference of counts between cases and controls. To control for differences in batch effects we only considered genes with high impact mutations in both cases and controls. We selected for analysis only those genes differentially affected (cases vs controls) with a threshold P-value with Bonferroni correction < 4.47227E-05 (0.05 / 1118 degrees of freedom). 
